In this video we're talking about prime factorization and how to use prime factorization to find the
product of primes of a number.
We're going to do for examples in the first one is the number 102.
And we want to find the prime factors of 102.
So remember that a prime number is a number which is only divisible by 1 and itself.
So one is a special number but two is a prime number.
The only factors of 2 are 1 and 2 3 is also a prime number because it's only divisible by 1 and itself.
So you can only divide three evenly by 1 and 3 4 is not a prime number because you can divide it by
1 in itself 1 and 4.
But you can also divided by another number two.
Which means that 4 is a composite number.
So that's just a basic review.
What we want to do here is find all of the prime numbers that have to be multiplied together in order
to get 1 or 2.
So when we're dealing with an even number right.
102 is even it's an even number.
When we're dealing with an even number the easiest way to start factoring is to divide by two because
we know that all even numbers are divisible by 2 and 2 is a prime number.
So we want to go ahead and divide by 2.
And what we need to do is say what do we have to multiply by 2 in order to get 102 or in other words
what's 102 divided by two.
Well that's 51.
So we get to and 51 as the factors of 102.
Now we want to look at each of these numbers and see if we can factor them further.
Well we know 2 is already a prime number so we can't factor it any further.
But what about 51.
Well 51 can be separated into factors of 3 and 17 because three times 17 is 51.
Three is a prime number because it's only divisible by 1 and itself by 1 and 3 and 17 is a prime number
because it's only divisible by 1 and itself 1 and 17 which means that we can't factor any further because
once we've hit prime numbers at the end of all of these paths we know we can't go any farther.
So we're done with our prime factorization.
And then if we want to find the product of primes all we do is take all of our prime factors and multiply
them together.
So 2 3 and 17 are the prime factors that make up 102.
So we just say two times three times 17 is the product of primes for 102.
If we look at another example here we have 84.
This is also an even number.
So let's go ahead and divide it first by two.
Times 42 gives us 84.
So we'll divide 84 into 2 and 42 2 is a prime number but 42 isn't so we'll divide 42 into 2 and 21 2
is a prime number but 21 isn't 21 can be divided into three and seven.
So now what we can see is that at the end of each road here at the end of each path we got to a prime
number two three and seven are all prime numbers.
So we can't go any further.
This is the prime factorization and the product of primes is going to be two times two times three times
seven.
Now when we have multiple factors of the same prime number here we have two factors of two.
We can rewrite this as two squared or two factors of two times three times seven.
And we always want to list our factors in ascending order so smallest factor first up to largest factor
we had two and then three and then 17 here.
Here we have two and then three and then seven and we want to write are factors of two together like
this.
Two factors of two is the same as two squared.
Looking In another example here 24.
We could divide by two if we wanted and get 2 and 12.
But let's say instead that we maybe forget that we have two and 12 x factors and we want to divide instead
into four and six because four times six is 24.
Then we could say four is divided into two and two and six is divided into two times three.
And now we can see that at the end of each path we have a prime number because to his prime and three
is prime.
So we know that we're down with our prime factorization and now we want to say that the product primes
is two times two times two times three.
Or we can rewrite it as two cubed times three which tells us three factors of two and one factor of
three.
Now the first three examples here we've had even numbers but sometimes we're going to have an odd number
and with an odd number we just know that we're not going to be able to divide by two.
But that doesn't mean that we can't factor it.
So for example 15 here we can divide into factors of 3 and 5 because three times five gives us 15.
Three is prime and five is prime.
So we know that we're done and we can say that the product of primes is three times five for 15.
In other words no matter what the number you're just looking to break down the number into irreducible
prime factor.
So at the end of each path you should have only prime numbers and then you take all those prime numbers
and multiply them together to find the product of primes.